
Blindness is one of the more feared afflictions in this evolving world. Blind people have many tasks to do in their lives. However, blindness generates challenges for them to perform their tasks. One of the major tasks for them is to fill the liquid in the container without spilling because they have no idea what size the container is. IOT Liquid Level Monitoring system is very innovative system which will inform the users about the level of liquid. For this we are going to develop a prototype which will assist the visually impaired individuals by monitoring and detecting the level and the temperature of the liquid in a cup or a glass by instructing them through voice assistant whenever the container full or nearly full or whether the liquid is hot, mild, or cold. So, that they can avoid unnecessary spilling or overflowing of liquid. The system consists of level sensor that is used to detect the liquid level, Arduino microcontroller, LCD screen is used to display the output, Wi-Fi modem for sending data, Temperature sensor is used to detect the temperature of the liquid, A trained speaker module is used to assist them or warn them from overflowing. And we are using a Rechargeable Battery for power supply. Whereas a web page is built to show the status to the user monitoring it. The web page gives a graphical view of the container and highlights the liquid level in color in order to show the level of liquid. This helps to inform user and prevent the liquid without spilling out of the container.
